---
tags:
  - exercise
  - set_theory
related topics:
  - "[[Binary Operation]]"
---
Which of the following binary operations are closed? 
1. Subtraction of positive integers.
2. Division of nonzero integers.
3. Function composition of polynomials with real coefficients.
4. Multiplication of $2 \times 2$ matrices with integer entries.
5. Exponentiation of integers.
##### Solution:
1. Subtraction of positive integers:
	$-: \mathbb{Z^+}\times\mathbb{Z^+}\to\mathbb{Z}$ is not closed since $1-2=-1\notin\mathbb{Z}^+$ .
2. Division of nonzero integers:
	$/:\mathbb{Z}^*\times\mathbb{Z}^*\to \mathbb{Q}$ is not closed since $1/2=0.5\notin\mathbb{Z}^*$.
3. Function composition of polynomials with real coefficients:
	Let $\mathbb{P}$ be the set of polynomials with real coefficients and let $f(x)=\sum_{i=0}^n c_i x^i$ and $g(x)=\sum_{i=0}^m d_i x^i$.
	- Polynomial addition is closed:$$
	\begin{align}
		f(x)+g(x) 
			&= \sum_{i=0}^n c_i x^i + \sum_{i=0}^m d_i x^i\\
			&= \sum_{i=0}^{\max(n,m)} (c_i x^i + d_i x^i)
				&\text{$c_i=0$ for $i>n$, $d_i=0$ for $i>m$}\\
			&= \sum_{i=0}^{\max(n,m)} (c_i + d_i) x^i\in\mathbb{P}
	\end{align}
	$$
	- Polynomial multiplication is closed:$$
		\begin{align}
			f(x)g(x) 
			&= \left(\sum_{i=0}^n c_i x^i\right)
				\left(\sum_{i=0}^m d_i x^i\right)\\
			&= \sum_{i=0}^n \left(c_i x^i
				\left(\sum_{j=0}^n d_j x^j\right)\right)\\
			&= \sum_{i=0}^n \sum_{j=0}^m c_i x^i d_j x^j\\
			&= \sum_{i=0}^n \sum_{j=0}^m c_i d_j x^{i+j}\in\mathbb{P}
				&\text{by closure of addition}
		\end{align}$$
	- Polynomial composition is closed:$$
		\begin{align}
			(g\circ f)(x) 
			&= g\left(\sum_{i=0}^n c_i x^i\right)\\
			&= \sum_{i=0}^m d_i 
				\left(\sum_{j=0}^n c_j x^j\right)^i\in\mathbb{P}
				&\text{by closure of multiplication}
		\end{align}$$
4. Multiplication of $2\times 2$ matrices with integer entries.
	Let $$
		A=\begin{bmatrix}
				a & b\\
				c & d
			\end{bmatrix},\quad
		B=\begin{bmatrix}
				a' & b'\\
				c' & d'
			\end{bmatrix}
	$$Then$$
	\begin{align}
		AB 
		&= \begin{bmatrix}
				a & b\\
				c & d
			\end{bmatrix}
			\begin{bmatrix}
				a' & b'\\
				c' & d'
			\end{bmatrix}\\
		&= \begin{bmatrix}
			aa' + bc'
				& ab' + bd'\\
			ca' + dc'
				& cb' + dd'
		\end{bmatrix}
	\end{align}
	$$which has integer entries by closure of integer addition and multiplication.
5. Exponentiation of integers:
	$\operatorname{pow}(\cdot,\cdot): \mathbb{Z}\times\mathbb{Z} \to \mathbb{R}$ is not closed since $2^{-1}=0.5\notin\mathbb{Z}$ .