---
tags:
  - exercise
  - category_theory
related topics:
  - "[[Multiset]]"
  - "[[Category]]"
---
An alternative to the notion of multiset introduced in §2.2 is obtained by considering sets endowed with equivalence relations; equivalent elements are taken to be multiple instances of elements ‘of the same kind’. Define a notion of morphism between such enhanced sets, obtaining a category $\mathbf{MSet}$ containing (a ‘copy’ of) Set as a full subcategory. (There may be more than one reasonable way to do this! This is intentionally an open-ended exercise.) Which objects in $\mathbf{MSet}$ determine ordinary multisets as defined in §2.2 and how? Spell out what a morphism of multisets would be from this point of view. (There are several natural notions of morphisms of multisets. Try to define morphisms in $\mathbf{MSet}$ so that the notion you obtain for ordinary multisets captures your intuitive understanding of these objects.)
##### Solution:
Define $\mathbf{MSet}$ by
- Objects:
	$$(S,\sim) in\operatorname{Obj}(\mathbf{MSet})  <==> \text{S is a set $\land$ $\sim$ is an equivalence relation on $S$}$$
	The objects are pairs $(S,\sim)$ where equivalence classes represent elements and their cardinality the multiplicity of said element.
- Morphisms:
	Let $(S,\sim),\ (T, \sim') in \operatorname{Obj}(\mathbf{MSet})$ and let $ approx$ be an equivalence relation on $T^S$[^1] where $f approx  g  <==> \big(\forall a,b in S. a\sim b \implies f(a)\sim' g(b)\big)$, then$$
	\operatorname{Hom}_\mathbf{MSet}\big((S,\sim), (T, \sim')\big) = \text{the equivalence classes of $ approx $}$$so morphisms are equivalence classes of functions that send related objects to related objects.
- Composition:
	For $(A,\sim_A)\overset{\overline{f}}{\to}(B,\sim_B)\overset{\overline{g}}{\to}(C,\sim_C)$, define $\overline{g}\circ \overline{f}: (A,\sim_A) \to (C,\sim_C)$ as $\overline{g\circ f}$.
Lets prove that $\mathbf{MSet}$ is a category.
- Identity:
	Let $(S,\sim) in\operatorname{Obj}(\mathbf{MSet})$, $\overline{\operatorname{id}_S}: (S,\sim) \to (S,\sim)$.
- Composition:
	Let $(A,\sim_A)\overset{\overline{f}}{\to}(B,\sim_B)\overset{\overline{g}}{\to}(C,\sim_C)$, $f, f' in \overline{f}$, and $g,g' in\overline{g}$. By definition$$
	
		a\sim_A a' &\implies f(a)\sim_B f'(a')
			&\text{for $a,a' in A$}\
		b\sim_B b' &\implies g(b)\sim_C g'(b')
			&\text{for $b,b' in B$}\
		\therefore a\sim_A a' &\implies (gf)(a)\sim_C (g'f')(a')\
		gf\!\! &\ \  approx \ g'f'
	
	$$so $\overline{gf}: (A,\sim_A) \to (C,\sim_C)$ is unique.
- Unitality:
	Let $(A,\sim_A)\overset{\overline{f}}{\to}(B,\sim_B)\overset{\overline{g}}{\to}(C,\sim_C)$. By definition $\overline{g\operatorname{id}_B}=\overline{g}$ and $\overline{\operatorname{id}_B f}=\overline{f}$.
- Associativity:
	Let $(A,\sim_A)\overset{\overline{f}}{\to}(B,\sim_B)\overset{\overline{g}}{\to}(C,\sim_C)\overset{\overline{h}}{\to}(D,\sim_D)$. By definition $\overline{(hg)f}=\overline{h(gf)}$.
Then $\mathbf{MSet}$ is a category. $\mathbf{Set}$ is the full category with $\operatorname{Obj}(\mathbf{Set}) = \{(S, =) in \operatorname{Obj}(\mathbf{MSet})\}$.

[^1]: Multiset functions should be equal based on the "kind" of elements they map from and to, not on the underlying representation of such elements. This motivates the choice for morphisms being equivalence classes of functions and not just the functions themselves.
