---
tags:
  - exercise
  - set_theory
related topics:
  - "[[Injectivity and surjectivity|Bijection]]"
---
How many different bijections are there between a set $S$ with $n$ elements and itself?
##### Solution:
By induction lets prove that there are $n!$ bijections from $\mathbb{Z}/n$ to itself.
- $P(1)$:
	There is only $1$ function from $\{1\}$ to $\{1\}$, namely the identity function which is a bijection trivially. As $1=1!$, $P(1)$ holds.
- $P(n)\implies P(n+1)$:
	Let $f:\mathbb{Z}/n\overset{\sim}{\to} \mathbb{Z}/n$ be a bijection and$$
	\begin{align}
		f_k: \mathbb{Z}/(n+1) &\overset{\sim}{\to} \mathbb{Z}/(n+1)\\
		s &\mapsto
		\begin{cases}
			f(k) &\text{if $s=n+1$}\\
			n+1 &\text{if $s=k$}\\
			f(s) &\text{otherwise}
		\end{cases}
	\end{align}
	$$
	for $k\in \mathbb{Z}/n$.
	- $f_k$ is injective:
		Let $s_1, s_2\in\mathbb{Z}/(n+1)$ such that $f_k(s_1)=f_k(s_2)$
		- Case $f(k)=f_k(s_1)=f_k(s_2)$:
			As $f_k$ maps $k$ to $n+1$, it must be the case that $s_1=s_2=n+1$.
		- Case $n+1=f_k(s_1)=f_k(s_2)$:
			$s_1=s_2=k$.
		- Case $f(s_1)=f_k(s_1)=f_k(s_2)=f(s_2)$:
			Then $f(s_1)=f(s_2)$ so $s_1=s_2$.
		So $f_k(s_1)=f_k(s_2)\implies s_1=s_2$.
	- $f_k$ is surjective:
		Let $m\in\mathbb{Z}/(n+1)$
		- Case $m\in \mathbb{Z}/n$:
			If $m= f(k)$ then $f_k(n+1)=m$. If $m\neq k$ then $f_k(s)=f(s)=m$ for some $s\in \mathbb{Z}/n$.
		- Case $m=n+1$:
			$f_k(k)=n+1$.
		So $\operatorname{Im}f_k=\mathbb{Z}/(n+1)$.
	So $f_k$ is a bijection.
	- Every bijection $f:\mathbb{Z}/(n+1)\overset{\sim}{\to}\mathbb{Z}/(n+1)$ equals $g_k$ for some $g:\mathbb{Z}/n\overset{\sim}{\to}\mathbb{Z}/n$:
		Let $f:\mathbb{Z}/(n+1)\overset{\sim}{\to}\mathbb{Z}/(n+1)$ be a bijection, if $f(n+1)=n+1$ then $f=f'_{n+1}$ where $f'$ is $f$ restricted to $\mathbb{Z}/n$. If $f(n+1)\neq n+1$ then let$$
		\begin{align}
			g:\mathbb{Z}/n&\overset{\sim}{\to}\mathbb{Z}/n\\
			s&\mapsto
			\begin{cases}
				f(n+1) &\text{if $s=f^{-1}(n+1)$}\\
				f(s) &\text{otherwise}
			\end{cases}
		\end{align}
		$$
		then $f=g_{f^{-1}(n+1)}$.
	So every bijection is some $f_k$.
	- For different bijections $f, g:\mathbb{Z}/n\overset{\sim}{\to}\mathbb{Z}/n$, $f_k \neq g_q$:
		Let $f,g:\mathbb{Z}/n\overset{\sim}{\to}\mathbb{Z}/n$ with $f\neq g$, then for some $s\in\mathbb{Z}/n$ $f(s)\neq g(s)$.
		- Case $k\neq q$:
			If $k\neq q$ then $f_k(q)=f(q)\neq n+1 = g_q(q)$, so $f_k \neq g_q$.
		- Case $k=q$:
			$f_k(n+1)=f(k)\neq g(k)=g_k(n+1)$ so $f_k \neq g_k$.
	So no $f_k$ is repeated.
	- From any $f:\mathbb{Z}/n \overset{\sim}{\to}\mathbb{Z}/n$ there are $n+1$ different $f_k:\mathbb{Z}/(n+1)\overset{\sim}{\to}\mathbb{Z}/(n+1)$:
		Given the above definition $k$ can vary from $1$ to $n$, and there is an additional bijection$$
		\begin{align}
			f_{n+1}: \mathbb{Z}/(n+1) &\overset{\sim}{\to} \mathbb{Z}/(n+1)\\
			s &\mapsto
			\begin{cases}
				n+1 &\text{if $s=n+1$}\\
				f(s) &\text{otherwise}
			\end{cases}
		\end{align}
		$$
		for a total of $n+1$ bijections.
	So there are $n+1$ possible $f_k$ for each $f$.
	By induction there are $n!$ bijections from $\mathbb{Z}/n$ to itself, so there are $n!(n+1)=(n+1)!$ bijections from $\mathbb{Z}/(n+1)$ to itself.
This concludes the proof by induction. As any set with the same finite cardinality is isomorphic to each other then there are also $n!$ bijections from $S$ to itself if $|S|=n$.